---
layout: post
title:  "Assignment 1 Refinement"
author: leah
categories: [ refine ]
image: assets/images/bokeh_logo.png
permalink: /assignment-one-r/
---

I chose to refine Assignment 1 as one of my two refinement options. 

At the beginning of the semester, Assignment 1 challenged me to replicate existing visualizations using visualization tools. Replicating two visualizations was challenging, but I gained a sense of accomplishment when I identified the correct hexadecimal values for color bins and chose the correct alpha value for mark transparency. I was impressed by the original visualizations for assignment 1. I had even seen some of them while casually scrolling through Instagram. Replicating some of the visualizations showed me that I could create eye-catching visualizations using tools I’d used before. That is why I chose to refine this assignment – *I’d ***only*** used tools I was professionally familiar with.* In assignment 1, I used plotly and matplotlib to replicate visualizations, but for this refinement, I chose to use bokeh to visualize the top 500 box office performances by decade. I was not familiar with bokeh at all before this activity, but I enjoyed learning about bokeh. Should I ever have to use bokeh in research or industry experiences, I now know the pros and cons of the tool.

The feature I liked the most about bokeh was its modularity. To create a scatterplot in bokeh, each individual mark gets added to a plot. Compared to plotly and matplotlib, which have built-in functions for scatterplots, bokeh allowed for greater control over each mark’s spatial position and color. While exploring bokeh’s documentation, I noticed that bokeh supports other types of shapes/glyphs to represent points in a scatter plot, such as diamonds and squares. For a future scatter plot, I would like to explore marks beyond a circle. I	did wish that I had more control over text addition outside of the plot. However, I have experienced this limitation with other tools.
