---
layout: post
title:  "Color Curation"
author: leah
categories: [ non-refinements ]
image: assets/images/color.jpg
permalink: /color-n/
---

I decided to curate and reflect on the color theme. I could not find my completed Ch. 10 Color activity sheet so, the following reflection discusses what I learned about color throughout the course and through other course topic activity sheets (ex. misleading vis worksheet).

The color course topic was easily one of my favorite topics from this course so, that's why I included it in this portfolio. I liked learning about color because the concepts covered in lecture and the textbook surprised me. Before the course, I believed that color mappings are simple and any design choices made by the viz designer are purely related to aesthetics. I could hardly see use cases for applying a diverging color scheme. After the course item was covered, I learned that color mappings are nuanced and the appropriate color mapping depends on accessibility concerns, data types, and tasks.

Since taking the course, I've subconsciously started to analyze the effectiveness of any color palette I see in my day-to-day life. I've become more aware of conflicting color palettes and potential impacts of color palette choices for people with color blindness. From the in-class color activity and this course, I've learned to compare different color palettes when mapping color to data. Finalizing the first palette that you can think of, without thinking of a vis user, can lead to decreased effectiveness.

In industry, I will apply what I've learned through the color course item to use the best color palette for a viz.