---
layout: post
title:  "Marks and Channels Refinement with Dear Data"
author: leah
categories: [ refine, tutorial ]
image: assets/images/13.jpg
permalink: /marks-channels-r/
---

I chose to refine the marks and channels theme as one of my refinements.

While taking this course, I learned that different types of data can be represented through different marks and channels. By reading the marks and channels chapter and attending the course lecture, I learned the importance of choosing the best mark (line, point, etc) to address a user task. The Dear Data refinement stood out to me because I could creatively showcase the effectiveness of mark and channel choices without being limited to the few idioms this course has covered. I could create my own idiom! I also liked that the data I was representing would be data from my own life, not a static dataset found on Kaggle. I enjoyed creating the D-hall visualization the most because of the glyphs I made, combining satisfaction and meal type.

By completing this Dear Data activity, I learned that there are only so many marks and channels that can represent magnitude, categorical data, and position so, it is important for visualization designers to have a narrow user task scope. Crowding the visualization space with too many marks or having a glyph represent too many attributes will confuse the user. This activity also emphasized the design choice to have hue represent categorical attributes. When designing the D-hall dinner visualization, I asked my friends what hues they wanted to represent them. They loved the intentionality behind the question, and it emphasized how design choices can have connotations to them.

Outside of class, I will apply these concepts to my work when developing visualizations. The top concepts I will apply relate to encoding choices. The Dear Data activity made me think about what I wanted my users to ascertain from my visualization. I limited my task numbers to three tasks per visualization because I knew my glyphs could only represent so many attributes, and I only had so much space on my index card. Before I created my visualizations, I outlined the data types of my attributes and explored the best ways to represent them. 
